Update example with new API (#20)
DevExpress-Examples/blazor-theme-and-size-mode-switcher: Readme.md

# Implement a Theme Switcher in Blazor Applications

> This example demonstrates how to add a Theme Switcher to your application. Users can switch between DevExpress Fluent and Classic themes and an external Bootstrap theme. This example uses the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme at application startup and the [IThemeChangeService.SetTheme()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService.SetTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to change themes at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example adds a Theme Switcher to your application. Users can switch between DevExpress Fluent and Classic themes and a [Bootstrap theme](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css). This example uses the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme on application startup and the [IThemeChangeService.SetTheme()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService.SetTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to change themes at runtime.
```

![Blazor - Theme Switcher](images/blazor-theme-switcher.png)

## Configure Available Themes

> The theme switcher in this example includes the following themes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The theme switcher includes the following themes:
```

* DevExpress Fluent (Light Blue and Dark Blue)
* DevExpress Classic (Blazing Berry, Blazing Dark, Purple, and Office White)

> * Bootstrap External

Author: ```suggestion
* [Bootstrap External](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css)

```

> * Bootstrap External

Reviewer: Which one? Can we give a link to the bootswatch web site?

Create a `Themes.cs` file and configure themes as follows:

1. For Classic themes, choose a theme from the built-in DevExpress Blazor [Themes](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.Themes) collection:

    ```cs
    public static readonly ITheme BlazingBerry = Themes.BlazingBerry;
    public static readonly ITheme BlazingDark = Themes.BlazingDark;
    public static readonly ITheme Purple = Themes.Purple;
    public static readonly ITheme OfficeWhite = Themes.OfficeWhite;
    ```

> 1. For Fluent themes, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add theme stylesheets and change the theme mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For Fluent themes, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add theme stylesheets and change theme mode:
```

    ```cs
    public static readonly ITheme FluentLight = Themes.Fluent.Clone(props => {
        props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-fluent.css");
    });
    public static readonly ITheme FluentDark = Themes.Fluent.Clone(props => {
        props.Mode = ThemeMode.Dark;
        props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-fluent.css");
    });
    ```

> 1. For Bootstrap theme, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add a required Bootstrap theme stylesheet and a custom one:

Reviewer: If I understood the idea correctly...
```suggestion
1. For Bootstrap themes, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add a Bootstrap theme stylesheet. Use the same approach if you want to apply your own stylesheets.
```

    * [CookiesService.cs](./CS/switcher/switcher/Services/CookiesService.cs)  
    Manages cookies.

2. In the [_Imports.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/_Imports.razor) file, import `{ProjectName}.Components.ThemeSwitcher` and `{ProjectName}.Services` namespaces:

    ```cs
    @using {ProjectName}.Components.ThemeSwitcher
    @using {ProjectName}.Services
    ```

5. Register `ThemesService` and `CookiesService` in the [Program.cs](./CS/switcher/switcher/Program.cs#L13-L16) file. Ensure that this file also contains `Mvc` and `HttpContextAccessor` services:

    ```cs
    builder.Services.AddMvc();
    builder.Services.AddHttpContextAccessor();
    builder.Services.AddScoped<ThemesService>();
    builder.Services.AddTransient<CookiesService>();
    ```

6. Add the following code to the [App.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/App.razor) file:

    * Inject services with the [&#91;Inject&#93; attribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.components.injectattribute):

        ```html
        @inject IHttpContextAccessor HttpContextAccessor
        @inject ThemesService ThemesService
        ```
    

>     * Add script and stylesheet links to the file's `<head>` section and call the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme at application startup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Add script and stylesheet links to the file's `<head>` section and call the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme on application startup:
```

    ```razor
    <Drawer>
    @* ... *@
        <ThemeSwitcher />
    @* ... *@
    </Drawer>
    ``` 

## Add Specific Stylesheets

Our DevExpress Blazor themes affect DevExpress components only. In case you need to apply theme-specific styles to non-DevExpress elements or the entire application, add external stylesheets to the theme using its `AddFilePaths()` method:

> Bootstrap themes require external theme-specific stylesheets. Once you register a Bootstrap theme, call the `Clone()` method and add an appropriate stylesheet using theme properties.

```cs
public static readonly ITheme BootstrapDefault = Themes.BootstrapExternal.Clone(props => {
    props.Name = "Bootstrap";
    // Links a Bootstrap theme stylesheet
    props.AddFilePaths("https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css");
    // Links a custom stylesheet
    props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-bs.css");
});
```

## Change Bootstrap Theme Color Modes

If you plan to use dark Bootstrap themes, you need to implement custom logic that applies a `data-bs-theme` attribute to the root <html> element:

> * `data-bs-theme="light"` for light themes

Reviewer: Is data-bs-theme="light" applied by default? If yes, just say "change the attribute value to dark".

    public static readonly ITheme OfficeWhite = Themes.OfficeWhite;
    ```
1. For Fluent themes, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add theme stylesheets and change theme mode:

    ```cs
    public static readonly ITheme FluentLight = Themes.Fluent.Clone(props => {
        props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-fluent.css");
    });
    public static readonly ITheme FluentDark = Themes.Fluent.Clone(props => {
        props.Mode = ThemeMode.Dark;
        props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-fluent.css");
    });
    ```
1. For Bootstrap themes, call the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method to add a Bootstrap theme stylesheet. Use the same approach if you want to apply your own stylesheets.

    ```cs
    public static readonly ITheme BootstrapDefault = Themes.BootstrapExternal.Clone(props => {
        props.Name = "Bootstrap";
        props.AddFilePaths("https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css");
        props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-bs.css");
    });
    ```

> 1. Declare an enumeration with themes:

Reviewer 2: So this enumeration doesn't seem to be connected to any previous or following code. Maybe I would delete this part... Or we should add some other code that somehow uses this enumerator.

> 1. Declare an enumeration with themes:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create a list of themes:

```

        ```html
        <head>
            @* ... *@
            <script src=@AppendVersion("switcher-resources/js/cookies-manager.js")></script>
            <link href=@AppendVersion("switcher-resources/theme-switcher.css") rel="stylesheet" />

            @DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(InitialTheme)
            @* ... *@
        </head>
        ```

    * Obtain the theme from cookies during component initialization:

        ```razor
        @code {
            private ITheme InitialTheme;
            protected override void OnInitialized() {
                InitialTheme = ThemesService.GetThemeFromCookies(HttpContextAccessor);
            }
        }
        ```

7. Declare the Theme Switcher component in the [MainLayout.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/Layout/MainLayout.razor#L22) file:

    ```razor
    <Drawer>
    @* ... *@
        <ThemeSwitcher />
    @* ... *@
    </Drawer>
    ``` 

> ## Add Specific Stylesheets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add Stylesheets to a Theme (Apply Styles to Non-DevExpress UI Elements)

```

# Implement a Theme Switcher in Blazor Applications

> This example demonstrates how to add a Theme Switcher to your application. Users can switch between DevExpress Fluent and Classic themes and an external Bootstrap theme. This example uses the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme at application startup and the [IThemeChangeService.SetTheme()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService.SetTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to change themes at runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to add a Theme Switcher to your application. Users can switch between DevExpress Fluent and Classic themes and external Bootstrap themes. This example uses the [DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(ITheme)](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply a theme at application startup and the [IThemeChangeService.SetTheme()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService.SetTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to change the theme at runtime.

```

![Blazor - Theme Switcher](images/blazor-theme-switcher.png)

## Configure Available Themes

The theme switcher includes the following themes:

* DevExpress Fluent (Light Blue and Dark Blue)
* DevExpress Classic (Blazing Berry, Blazing Dark, Purple, and Office White)
* [Bootstrap External](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css)

> Create a `Themes.cs` file and configure themes as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a `Themes.cs` file and configure themes:

```

    * **js/cookies-manager.js**  
    Contains a function that stores the theme in a cookie variable.
    * **theme-switcher.css**  
    Contains CSS rules that define the Theme Switcher's appearance and behavior.

3. Add the following services to your application (copy the corresponding files):

    * [ThemeService.cs](./CS/switcher/switcher/Services/ThemesService.cs)  
    Implements [IThemeChangeService](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService) to switch themes at runtime and uses the [SetTheme()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.IThemeChangeService.SetTheme(DevExpress.Blazor.ITheme)) method to apply the selected theme. 
    * [Themes.cs](./CS/switcher/switcher/Services/Themes.cs)  
    Creates a list of themes for the theme switcher using the built-in DevExpres Blazor [Themes](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.Themes) collection (for Classic themes) and the [Clone()](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxThemeBase-1.Clone(System.Action--0-)) method for Fluent and Bootstrap themes.
    * [CookiesService.cs](./CS/switcher/switcher/Services/CookiesService.cs)  
    Manages cookies.

> 2. In the [_Imports.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/_Imports.razor) file, import `{ProjectName}.Components.ThemeSwitcher` and `{ProjectName}.Services` namespaces:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. In the [_Imports.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/_Imports.razor) file, import the `{ProjectName}.Components.ThemeSwitcher` and `{ProjectName}.Services` namespaces:

```

        ```html
        <head>
            @* ... *@
            <script src=@AppendVersion("switcher-resources/js/cookies-manager.js")></script>
            <link href=@AppendVersion("switcher-resources/theme-switcher.css") rel="stylesheet" />

            @DxResourceManager.RegisterTheme(InitialTheme)
            @* ... *@
        </head>
        ```

    * Obtain the theme from cookies during component initialization:

        ```razor
        @code {
            private ITheme InitialTheme;
            protected override void OnInitialized() {
                InitialTheme = ThemesService.GetThemeFromCookies(HttpContextAccessor);
            }
        }
        ```

7. Declare the Theme Switcher component in the [MainLayout.razor](./CS/switcher/switcher/Components/Layout/MainLayout.razor#L22) file:

    ```razor
    <Drawer>
    @* ... *@
        <ThemeSwitcher />
    @* ... *@
    </Drawer>
    ``` 

## Add Stylesheets to a Theme (Apply Styles to Non-DevExpress UI Elements)

> Our DevExpress Blazor themes affect DevExpress components only. In case you need to apply theme-specific styles to non-DevExpress elements or the entire application, add external stylesheets to the theme using its `AddFilePaths()` method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our DevExpress Blazor themes affect DevExpress components only. To apply theme-specific styles to non-DevExpress elements or the entire application, add external stylesheets to the theme using its `AddFilePaths()` method:

```

> > Bootstrap themes require external theme-specific stylesheets. Once you register a Bootstrap theme, call the `Clone()` method and add an appropriate stylesheet using theme properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Bootstrap themes require external theme-specific stylesheets. Once you register a Bootstrap theme, call the `Clone()` method and add the stylesheet using theme properties.

```

```cs
public static readonly ITheme BootstrapDefault = Themes.BootstrapExternal.Clone(props => {
    props.Name = "Bootstrap";
    // Links a Bootstrap theme stylesheet
    props.AddFilePaths("https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css");
    // Links a custom stylesheet
    props.AddFilePaths("css/theme-bs.css");
});
```

## Change Bootstrap Theme Color Modes

> If you plan to use dark Bootstrap themes, you need to implement custom logic that applies a `data-bs-theme` attribute to the root <html> element:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to use dark Bootstrap themes, implement custom logic that applies a `data-bs-theme` attribute to the root <html> element:

```
